The aim of this study was to draw attention to the possible existence of "quirks" in bibliographic databases and to discuss their implications. We analysed the time-trends of "publication types" (PTs) relating to clinical medicine in the most frequently searched medical database, MEDLINE. We counted the number of entries corresponding to 10 PTs indexed in MEDLINE (1963-1998) and drew up a matrix of [10 PTs x 36 years] which we analysed by correspondence factor analysis (CFA). The analysis showed that, although the "internal clock" of the database was broadly consistent, there were periods of erratic activity. Thus, observed trends might not always reflect true publication trends in clinical medicine but quirks in MEDLINE indexing of PTs. There may be, for instance, different limits for retrospective tagging of entries relating to different PTs. The time-trend for Reviews of Reported Cases differed substantially from that of other publication types.
Despite the quirks, quite rational explanations could be provided for the strongest correlations among PTs. The main factorial map revealed how the advent of the Randomised Controlled Trial (RCT) and the accumulation of a critical mass of literature may have increased the rate of publication of research syntheses (meta-analyses, practice guidelines...). The RCT is now the "gold standard" in clinical investigation and is often a key component of formal "systematic reviews" of the literature. Medical journal editors have largely contributed to this situation and thus helped to foster the birth and development of a new paradigm, "evidence based medicine" which assumes that expert opinion is biased and therefore relies heavily - virtually exclusively on critical analysis of the peer-reviewed literature. Our exploratory factor analysis, however, leads us to question the consistency of MEDLINE's indexing procedures and also the rationale for MEDLINE's choice of descriptors. Databases have biases of their own, some of which are not independent of expert opinion. User-friendliness should not make us forget that outputs depend on how the databases are constructed and structured.