Publication and citation data for the thirty journals listed in the Dermatology gr Venereal Diseases category of the 1996 edition of the Journal Citation Reports (JCR) on CDROM and seven dermatology journals not listed in the JCR-1996 were retrieved online from DIMDI and analysed with respect to short- and long-term impact factors, ratios of cited to uncited papers, as well as knowledge export and international visibility.
The short-term impact factors (calculated according to the rules applied in the JCR) are very similiar to their JCR counterparts: thus there are only minor changes in the rankings according to JCR impact factors and those calculated on the basis of online data, The non-JCR journals rank within the upper (two titles) and the lower third of the 37 journals (one title being at the upper end of the last third and the other four titles being at the very end of the list). Ranking the journals according to their long-term impact factors results in no major changes of a journal's position. Normalized mean citation rates which give a more direct impression of a journals's citedness in relation to the average citedness of its subfield are also shown.
Ratios of cited to uncited papers parallel in general the impact factors, i.e., journals with higher (constructed) impact factors have a higher percentage of cited papers. For each journal, the Gini concentration coefficient was calculated as a measure of unevenness of the citation distribution. In general, journals with higher (constructed) impact factors have higher Gini coefficients, i.e., the higher the impact factors the more uneven the citation distribution.
Knowledge export and international visibility were measured by determination of the distinct categories to which the citing journals have been assigned ("citing subfields") and of the distinct countries to which the citing authors belong ("citing countries"), respectively. Each journal exhibits a characteristic profile of citing subfields and citing countries, Normalized rankings based on knowledge export and international visibility (relating the number of published papers to the number of distinct subfields and distinct countries) are to a large extent different compared to the impact factor rankings. It is concluded that the additional data given, especially the data on knowledge export and international visibility, are necessary ingredients of a comprehensive description of a journal's significance and its position within its subject category.